New entry mutable variables (#5555)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/variables/terms/mutable-variables/mutable-variables.md

> ---
> Title: 'Mutable variables'
> Description: 'In C++, the `mutable` keyword in C++ allows certain class variables to be modified even within const functions, useful for managing internal state flexibly.'
> Subjects:
>   - 'Computer Science'
>   - 'Game Development'
> Tags:
>   - 'Variables'
> CatalogContent:
>   - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
>   - 'paths/computer-science'
> ---

Reviewer: Modifications:

- Let's write the title in title case
- Let's change the description a bit
- Let's add some more tags

```suggestion
---
Title: 'Mutable Variables'
Description: 'Mutable variables are variables that can be modified even within constant functions.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Values'
  - 'Variable Types'
  - 'Variables'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---
```

> In C++, the `mutable` keyword in C++ allows certain class variables to be modified even within const functions, useful for managing internal state flexibly.

Reviewer: Let's make some minor changes:

```suggestion
In C++, mutable variables are variables that can be modified even within constant functions, useful for managing internal state flexibly.
```

## Syntax

> To declare a variable as `mutable`, simply place the `mutable` keyword before the variable type:

Reviewer: Let's make some minor changes:

```suggestion
To declare a variable as mutable, the `mutable` keyword needs to be placed before the variable type:
```

```pseudo
mutable type name;
```

> - **type** - The type of the variable (e.g., `int`, `char`).
> - **name** - The name of the variable.

Reviewer: Let's make some minor changes:

```suggestion
- `type`: The type of the variable (e.g., `int`, `char`).
- `name`: The name of the variable.
```

## Example

> In the example below, `accessCount` is marked `mutable`, allowing it to be modified within the const `displayData` function:

Reviewer: Let's make some minor changes:

```suggestion
In the example below, `accessCount` is marked `mutable`, allowing it to be modified within the constant `displayData()` function:
```

> ```cpp
> #include <iostream>
> #include <string>
> 
> class Data {
> public:
>     Data(std::string value) : data(value), accessCount(0) {}
> 
>     void displayData() const {
>         ++accessCount; // Allowed modification due to `mutable`
>         std::cout << "Data: " << data << ", Access count: " << accessCount << std::endl;
>     }
> 
> private:
>     std::string data;
>     mutable int accessCount; // Can be modified in const methods
> };
> 
> int main() {
>     Data d("Sample");
>     d.displayData();
>     d.displayData();
>     return 0;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: Let's change the indentation to 2 spaces and make some minor changes:

````suggestion
```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <string>

class Data {
public:
  Data(std::string value) : data(value), accessCount(0) {}
  
  void displayData() const {
    ++accessCount; // Modification allowed due to 'mutable'
    std::cout << "Data: " << data << ", Access count: " << accessCount << std::endl;
  }

private:
  std::string data;
  mutable int accessCount; // Can be modified in constant methods
};

int main() {
  Data d("Sample");
  d.displayData();
  d.displayData();
  return 0;
}
```
````

> ```shell
> Data: Sample, Access count: 1
> Data: Sample, Access count: 2
> ```

Reviewer: Let's add a sentence to introduce the output:

````suggestion
The above code produces the following output:

```shell
Data: Sample, Access count: 1
Data: Sample, Access count: 2
```
````

> Here, even though `displayData` is a const member function, `accessCount` can be incremented due to its `mutable` declaration.

Reviewer: Let's make some minor changes:

```suggestion
Here, even though `displayData()` is a constant member function, `accessCount` can be incremented due to its `mutable` declaration.
```

## Codebyte Example

> Use this example to experiment with mutable variables in C++. Enjoy coding!

Reviewer: Let's change the sentence:

```suggestion
The following codebyte example demonstrates the usage of mutable variables:
```

> ```codebyte/cpp
> #include <iostream>
> 
> class Counter {
> public:
>     Counter() : count(0) {}
> 
>     void increment() const {
>         ++count;  // count is mutable, so this modification is allowed in const method
>     }
> 
>     int getCount() const {
>         return count;
>     }
> 
> private:
>     mutable int count;
> };
> 
> int main() {
>     Counter counter;
>     counter.increment();
>     counter.increment();
>     std::cout << "Count: " << counter.getCount() << std::endl;
>     return 0;
> }
> ```

Reviewer: Let's change the indentation to 2 spaces and make some minor changes:

````suggestion
```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>

class Counter {
public:
  Counter() : count(0) {}
  
  void increment() const {
    ++count;  // 'count' is mutable, so this modification is allowed in this constant method
  }
  
  int getCount() const {
    return count;
  }

private:
  mutable int count;
};

int main() {
  Counter counter;
  counter.increment();
  counter.increment();
  std::cout << "Count: " << counter.getCount() << std::endl;
  return 0;
}
```
````
